# ecotrack
#### lua program ecotrack.lua

## Installation
 You'll need root access to the Prism to install these programs.

 Lua program ecotrack.lua requires penlight, bit logic, cjson and posix which must be installed:

        opkg install penlight
        opkg install luabitop
        opkg install lua-cjson
	opkg install luaposix

  Ecotrack can run as a daemon: `ecotrack -d` otherwise it runs in the foreground. Use "-q" or set level
  to control log file size.

Ecotrack includes the following modules:
 + ecotrack.lua - the main program
 + ect.lua - the control functions
 + log.lua - logging functions
 + system.lua - system functions (signal and fork)
 
## Program
  Ecotrack accepts the following options:

  +  -d,--daemon   Run as daemon
  +  -q,--quiet    Suppress messages  (set level to warn)
  +  -c,--config (optional string) Path to config file
  +  -l,--level (optional level default info) log level (fatal, error, warn, info, debug, trace)
  +  -v,--version  Version

The config file is expected to be in same directory as the main script
unless otherwise specified on the command line.

- Quiet option forces level to "warn" to supress informational message.
- Version option prints current configuration and version string. If Quiet then only
  version string is printed.
- Log messages are printed to /tmp/ecotrack.log when in daemon mode.

The program can be terminated with SIGINT or by sending 'eXit' as the
message to topic-control.

## Configuration

   Configuration is in ecotrack.cfg unless -c path is given.

   Mostly self explanatory.  You need to provide IP address of external
MQTT broker.  The various values are in amps and should be set to
match your installation.  The Hysteresis value is a ratio intended to increase
the range that the feed has to change before the charge current is changed in
order to reduce hunting between current levels.

The file is organised as key:value pairs with space separator.

    broker-ip xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
    broker-port 1883
    
    # receives data on these topics
    topic-data emon/data
    topic-control cmnd/prism/mode
    
    # emits data on these topics (if given)
    # Charge state including current
    topic-pub-status stat/prism/status
    # New current value (only)
    topic-pub-ca stat/prism/cA
    
    # min current allowed by evse
    min-curr 6
    # max current avail from solar
    max-curr 16
    # max current from evse
    max-uvse 32
    # flow reduction to provide hysteresis 
    hysteresis 0.93
    # initial mode at start
    start-mode auto

+ topic-pub-cA is emitted when the max current value is changed.
+ topic-pub-status is emitted approximately every minute and when current value is changed.

## MQTT Messages

### topic-data (emon/data)

This topic subscribes to the output of energy monitor. Several
different types of these JSON formatted message are emitted on this
topic which are distinguished by the "type" property in the
messages. Only messages af type "power" are used.

The following properties comprise the "power" type:
 + "type":"power"
 + "volts": <voltage at time of measurement> Volts
 + "pwr1": power being consumed from network (feed).  Watts. Negative values is power exported.
 + "pwr2": power being generated by solar panels. Watts
 + "ev": Power being delivered to EVSE.  Watts
 + "used": Power computed to be consumed in home.  Watts.

Only type, volts, pwr1 and ev values are required. Pwr1 and volts are
used to compute the current increment required to step the EVSE output
to minimse current exported to network.

Surplus energy is used to control on/off state of EVSE required by eco
mode. It's computed by subtracting pwr1 from ev. i.e. `surplus = ev - pwr1`.
Surplus is positive.

### topic-control (cmnd/prism/mode)

This is used to receive command messages.

 + Operation mode controls how the softare works:
   - eco follows solar generation to maximise transfer of solar power to
     vehicle. Switches  charging off when there's no surplus energy available.
   - auto follows solar generation to maximise transfer of solar power to
     vehicle.  Continues to charge vehicle at minimum rate when there's no surplus energy.
   - full sets to charge at full rate, 32A by default. 
   - half sets to charge at half rate, 16A by default.
   - min  set to charge at minumum rate, 6A by default.

#### Other messages:

1. General

   - an integer in range minimum to maximum (6 .. 32 by default) sets to charge at that rate. Amps.
   - sTatus evokes printing of EVSE status data.
   - eXit terminates the program.

1. Log Level Changes log level for terminal and log file to one of the following:

   - fatal
   - error
   - warn
   - info
   - debug
   - trace

### Notes
The following debug features currently exist:

+ The message "eXit" sent to topic-control will terminate the program.
+ The message "sTatus" sent to topic-control will cause ecotrack.lua
  to emit the EVSE status on stderr.
+ Can change log level whist program running

Modifications to the lua program will most likely be in function
handle_ON_MESSAGE in the ect module (ect.lua) where the MQTT messages are processed.
